# Docker - Getting Started

## Introduction

Hello & welcome to my course on `Docker - Getting Started`

This is a series of videos to help get up and running with CI / CD technologies such as

1. Docker
2. Jenkins
3. PowerShell
4. Kubernetes

---

## Containerize an API

In the previous video, we saw a few basic `docker commands` to manage container & images.

In this video, let us containerize an API.

What does it mean to `containerizing an application`?

Let's find out.

---

## .NET Core

We know that .NET Core is cross playform. It means, you can develop, build & host a .NET Core application on Windows, Mac and Linux.

In the previous video, we saw how to run a linux container.

Now, let us try to host a .NET Core Web API using a Linux Container.

---

## Requirements

To do that, we need 2 things

1. A Docker image with .NET Core Runtime
2. An API created with .NET Core

We can find an official image from `hub.docker.com`

Now, we know what to do. Let's pull the image to the local, by calling `docker pull` command

For the API Application, let us use a very simple repository `ja-cs`

You can find it on our JA Git Repositories.

The functional part of the API is not of importance here, as our goal is only to run the API inside a container.

---

## Build

```sh
dotnet clean
dotnet restore
dotnet build -c Release
dotnet test -c Release
dotnet publish ./src/KayakoToolsApi/KayakoToolsApi.csproj -c Release -o ./artifacts
```

---

## Commands

```sh
docker pull mcr.microsoft.com/dotnet/core/aspnet:3.1
```

```sh
docker run --rm -it -p 8080:80 -v ${PWD}:/app mcr.microsoft.com/dotnet/core/aspnet:3.1
```

---

## Materials

To try this video in an easier way, I have created a branch in `ja-cs` repository, i.e. `MTRM_JA47687`

You will find a few `notebooks` inside of the `notebooks` folder.
You can open them using `azure data studio` & run them.

Now setting up Azure Data Studio for running PowerShell notebooks is beyond the scope of this series, but it should be fairly simple to find online & set it up.

Once you have it set up, you can use it to document your learning along the way.
This also comes in handy when sharing with others, as they can just open the notebooks, read the markdown documentation & follow along.

`Happy Coding`

---
