# Docker - Getting Started

## Introduction

Hello & welcome to my course on `Docker - Getting Started`

This is a series of videos to help get up and running with CI / CD technologies such as

1. Docker
2. Jenkins
3. PowerShell
4. Kubernetes

---

## Multistage Build

In our previous video, we saw how we can use `Dockerfile` to create an image for our API.

But remember, we still have to prepare the artifacts locally before containarizing the application.

What if I tell you, you can use 1 Image to build your application & 1 Image for hosting it? That too using the same Dockerfile.

Think of it like the `Kitchen` and `Dining Room` in your home. You cook in your kitchen & eat in your `Dining Room`

The same way, you can use an SDK image for building your application & a runtime image for hosting it. Let us see how it is done.

---

## Dockerfile

In our previous video, we had a simple `Dockerfile`, with only 4 lines of code for just hosting the API.

I have modified the `Dockerfile` to have 2 sections, 1. Build & 2. Final

The `Build` section contains the standard operations like copying the source code from current system into docker image & performing operations like

1. Build
2. Unit Test
3. Publish Artifacts

The Final or Release section will copy the artifacts directory into runtime image & host the application

```sh
docker build -t ja-cs .
docker run --rm -it -p 8080:80 ja-cs
```

---

## Materials

All the commands & descriptions are available as `notebooks`
The `Dockerfile` can be found in the same branch of `ja-cs` for further reference

`Happy Coding`

---
